---
title: Full Stack Developer, FPT Software (2024)
section: experience
overview: Delivered an end to end visa-management platform from start to finish within 5 months.
order: 11
links:
  - label: Site
    href: https://fptsoftware.com/fpt-americas
metadata:
  - label: Location
    value: Montreal, Remote
    icon: MapPin
  - label: Timeline
    value: Fall 2024 (5 months)
    icon: CalendarRange
  - label: Tools
    value:
      - TypeScript
      - Java
      - React
      - NodeJS (Express)
      - Springboot
      - Hibernate
      - Postman
      - Swagger
      - PostgreSQL
    icon: Shapes
---

# Overview

I worked in a small project team at FPT Software to complete a visa-management platform for a client. I was the core frontend developer and led a lot of the initial design decisions. There were also several signifigant backend contributions I made alongside a Senior Java Springboot dev. 

# My key contributions
Here are some of the things I helped deliver over the 5 month span:
- Built out the application frontend using Redux, Acios, Vite, and Ant Design. Converted over 200 figma mockups into pixel perfect interfaces
- Streamlined frontend development by designing a custom UI component library from scratch using React & CSS Modules
- Introduced a secure **Node.js proxy server** with encryption, JWT management, and session caching, which strengthed security by preventing client applications from interacting with the core API server
- Automated a key client workflow by developing a **PDF parsing/autofilling** tool using Apache PDFBox capable of extracting data from both raw and XFA-based PDFs. Integrated with an email webhook, handling **1000's of forms daily**

# Document & Form Processing
Our client recieves 1000s of emails per day and all are funneled into the application for processing. I worked on a document/form extraction pipeline that detected PDF attachments from emails using Gmail API and parsed them using Apache PDFBox (A free & open source tool). The parsed form data then had to be matched to an existing user by name. Forms were split into two categories:
1. XFA forms - These are dynamically filled using Adobe Acrobat and can be easily extracted programatically
2. Raw PDFs - These are PDFs generated by one of our client's services and embed text directly into PDF

The challenge with raw PDFs is that there is no extractable structure of key-value pairs unlike XFA forms. In addition, these forms had embedded images that also had to be extracted.

My solution for extracting images from raw PDFs was to use the existing layout of the embedded images and extract them based on a fixed `width`, `height`, `xOffset`, and `yOffset` within the pages. This made sense because of the fixed layout of the forms. Plus, extracting images dynamically with OCR was outside our budget anyway.

As for form fields, we also used the fixed form layout to extract using Regex. A future improvement could be to use LLM image parsing, if budget allows.

# Other cool features

## Dynamic Tables

## Email template editing

# Deployment
The app was deployed on Azure VMs (ubuntu) and containerized using Docker. A deployment script abstracted away a lot of the docker cmds and allowed us to easily push/pull images, revert versions, and tail the deployed server logs. 